[Issue #3474] Doc updates for auth (#3491)
HHS/simpler-grants-gov: documentation/frontend/development.md

# Development

This [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) application can be run natively (or locally)

> **Running in locally is the default**, but it can be useful to run the built images in order to troubleshoot and to connect directly with the local API application for development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Running locally is the default**, but it can be useful to run the built Docker images in order to more closely simulate our deployed environment, troubleshoot production issues, and to connect directly with the local API application for development.
```

## Local (non-Docker)

### 🏗️ Development version

Run `npm install && npm run dev` to install and start the application.

### 🏛️ "Built" version

The Next.js frontend application is exported for production using [next build](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/cli/next#next-build-options). To recreate this locally, outside of the container, run the following:

- `npm run build` - Builds the production Next.js bundle

> - `npm start` - Runs the Next.js server, after building the production bundle

Reviewer: is it worth noting somewhere that our deployed application runs in standalone mode with `node server.js` (or `node .next/standalone/server.js`) rather than `next start`?

### Testing Release Target Locally

To test the release target locally, run:

- `make release-build OPTS="--tag [IMAGE_NAME]"` or
- `docker buildx build --target release --tag [IMAGE_NAME]` for a faster build on OSX

to build a local image. To view the site at `localhost:3000`, run: `docker run -e "HOSTNAME=0.0.0.0" -p 3000:3000 [IMAGE_NAME]`.

## 🎯 Testing

### :atom: Unit Testing

[Jest](https://jestjs.io/docs/getting-started) is used as the test runner and [React Testing Library](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/intro) provides React testing utilities.

Tests are manged as `.test.ts` (or `.tsx`) files in the the `tests/` directory.

To run tests:

- `npm test` - Runs all tests and outputs test coverage report
- `npm run test-update` - Updates test snapshots
- `npm run test-watch` - Runs tests in [watch](https://jestjs.io/docs/cli#--watch) mode. Tests will re-run when files are changed, and an interactive prompt will allow you to run specific tests or update snapshots.

> A subset of tests can be ran by passing a pattern to the script. For example, to only run tests in `tests/pages/`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A subset of tests can be run by passing a pattern to the script. For example, to only run tests in `tests/pages/`:
```

```sh
npm run test-watch -- pages
```

### 🚦 End-to-end (E2E) testing

[Playwright](https://playwright.dev/) is a framework for web testing and its test runner is called [Playwright Test](https://playwright.dev/docs/api/class-test), which can be used to run E2E or integration tests across chromium, firefox, and webkit browsers.

E2E test filenames end with `.spec.ts` and are found in the `tests/e2e` directory.

To run E2E tests via CLI:

- `cd ../api && make init db-seed-local start` (prerequisite to start the API)
- `npx playwright install --with-deps` — Downloads playwright browsers required to run tests
- `npm run test:e2e` — Runs all E2E tests using the playwright config found at `tests/playwright.config.ts`
- `npm run test:e2e:ui` — Run specific or all E2E tests using Playwright's [UI mode](https://playwright.dev/docs/test-ui-mode), which is useful for debugging full traces of each test

To run E2E tests using VS Code:

1. Download the VS Code extension described in these [Playwright docs](https://playwright.dev/docs/running-tests#run-tests-in-vs-code)
2. Follow the [instructions](https://playwright.dev/docs/getting-started-vscode#running-tests) Playwright provides

> Playwright E2E tests run "local-to-local", requiring both the frontend and the API to be running for the tests to pass - and for the database to be seeded with data.

Reviewer: I've been confused by this - I actually get an error if I try to run e2e tests locally in VS code while running a dev server. If I have a built application in the .next directory, though, it seems to work without starting an actual server, and seems to start its own automatically

Reviewer: since it's running `npm run start` on 3000, it seems like what you actually need to do is make sure you have a build complete for playwright to use, which would mean running `npm run build` first. That tracks with my experience, but the docs here seem to suggest that you actually need to have things running (either with `npm start` or `npm run dev`) first, which in my experience doesn't work

Author: `reuseExistingServer: !process.env.CI,` means that it [just listens on 3000](https://playwright.dev/docs/test-webserver).

So you need to run on dev or prod build locally.

> In CI, the "Front-end Checks" workflow (`.github/workflows/ci-frontend-e2e.yml`) summary will include an "Artifacts" section where there is an attached "playwright-report". [Playwright docs](https://playwright.dev/docs/ci-intro#html-report) describe how to view HTML Report in more detail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In CI, the "Frontend Checks" workflow (`.github/workflows/ci-frontend-e2e.yml`) runs Playwright tests, and will include a summary when complete, with an "Artifacts" section where there is an attached "playwright-report". [Playwright docs](https://playwright.dev/docs/ci-intro#html-report) describe how to view the HTML Report in more detail.
```

2. Navigate to [localhost:6006](http://localhost:6006) to view

#### Static

- `npm run storybook-build` - Exports a static site to `storybook-static/`

#### Docker

Alternatively, you can run Storybook in a Docker container.

From the `frontend/` directory:

1. `make storybook`
2. Navigate to [localhost:6006](http://localhost:6006) to view

### 🐛 Debugging the Next App in VSCode

- See the debug config: `./.vscode/launch.json`
  - There are several debug config targets defined there depending on if you want to debug just client components (client-side), just server components (server-side), or both (with the Full Stack option). You can also debug the built server (launched from `npm start` instead of `npm run dev`).
- Run one of these launch targets from the VSCode debug menu
- Place breakpoints in VSCode
- Visit the relevant routes in the browser and confirm you can hit these breakpoints

**Note** that debugging the server-side or full-stack here doesn't debug the API. [See the API readme for more information](../documentation/api/development.md)

## Feature setup and development

The following features require additional local setup to use.

### Search and Opportunity Pages

> The `/search` and opportunity pages rely on the application API. The API endpoint and authenticaion token are defined in `.env.development` and can be overwritten in an `.env.ocal` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `/search` and opportunity pages rely on the application API. The API endpoint and authentication token are defined in `.env.development` and can be overwritten in an `.env.ocal` file.
```

> Update the `API_URL` can be set to connect to prod (`https://api.simpler.grants.gov`) or lower environment URLs to quickly develop using production or development data. This requires the correct `API_AUTH_TOKEN` variable to be set correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `API_URL` environment variable can be set to connect to prod (`https://api.simpler.grants.gov`) or lower environment URLs to quickly develop using production or development data. To successfully connect to a deployed API, the `API_AUTH_TOKEN` variable must be set correctly for the environment.
```

> To connect to the development version of the API, run `make init && db-seed-local && populate-search-opportunities` in the `/api` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start a local development version of the API, run `make init && db-seed-local && populate-search-opportunities` in the `/api` folder.
```
